Metric calculations are adapted for charts with many factors. For example, in the _BNF-level prescribing analysis by geography_ chart the Adur Local Authority in 2022/23 had a ‘Mean prescription items PPM’ value of 0.25 for the Lansoprazole chemical substance. There were 1,199 Lansoprazole items prescribed in care homes in Adur in 2022/23, which is the numerator in this calculation. There were 4,828 care home patient-months in Adur in 2022/23, which is the denominator in this calculation. 1,199 / 4,828 = 0.2 to a single decimal place, as displayed in the chart.

The _National BNF-level prescribing estimates_ and _BNF-level prescribing estimates by geography_ charts have four metrics not using patient-months as a denominator. These are ‘% of total annual number of prescription items’, ‘% of total annual drug cost’, ‘Total annual number of prescription items’ and ‘Total annual drug cost’. These calculations also consider many factors. For example, Adur in 2022/23 had a ‘% of total annual number of prescription items’ value of 0.7% for the Salbutamol chemical substance. There were 323 Salbutamol items prescribed in care homes in Adur in 2022/23, which is the numerator in this calculation. There were 48,594 total items prescribed in care homes in Adur in 2022/23, which is the denominator in this calculation. 100 * (323 / 48,594) = 0.7% to 1 decimal place, as displayed in the chart.

### Length of stay

Care home patient length of stay metric values are calculated differently to other analysis sections. In this analysis, patients are grouped and metric values are calculated, depending on how many consecutive months with only care home prescribing a patient has received in a care home setting. The below table illustrates an example of this for a single patient.
